# Higher Order component
- Higher order component is the enhanced version of the component.
- It is a normal component which takes component as arguments and return enhanced version of component.
- Higher order component are also known as Pure component, because it does not modify the behaviour of the component, it creates a new one.
- When to Use HOCs:
  1. Cross-cutting concerns: For functionalities like logging, analytics, or error handling that need to be added to multiple components.
  2. State management: Sharing common state or behavior among different components, such as authentication status.
  3. Conditional rendering: Wrapping components to conditionally render based on certain conditions, like user permissions.
- As we said earlier, HOC are just normal JS function.
```
// HOC example of adding load functionality
export function withLoadingSpinner = (MyComponent) => {
  return (isLoading, props) => {
    return(
      {isLoading ? <Spinner /> : <MyComponent {...props} />}
    );
  }
}

// In the calling component
import {withLoadingSpinner} from '../..';
...
...
...

const ComponentWithLoad = withLoadingSpinner(MyComponent);
...
...
...
// On calling component
<ComponentWithLoad isLoading={true} name={"Harvey"} surname={"Woznaik"} />
```
- We defined `props` in the return bracket, as that's where the component function is defined.
- Also we passed `{...props}` to MyComponent, which means all the props are passed to MyComponent as it is.

## Controlled vs Uncontrolled components:
- `Uncontrolled components` are the components that are handled by DOM itself.
- Thus uncontrolled components do not depend on any state of input elements or any event handler. This type of component does not care about real-time input changes.

- `Controlled component` in react is referred to as controlled when we let react control the component for us.
- It means that the component contol the input form, and all of its changes are completely driven by event handlers like setState().
- Also, the component controls the render and keeps the data of form in the component state.
