# Context in React
## Props drilling
- In react, props drilling refers to the process of **passing down props (short for properties)** through multiple layers of nested components.
- This happens when a piece of data needs to be transferred from a higher-level component a deeply nested child component, and it must pass through several intermediary components in between.
- Prop is passed down from the parent component through the child components, and sometimes parent component or intermediary component doesn't use the data prop, they just pass it child component.
- Prop drilling can make the code harder to maintain, especially as the application grows and the no. of components in the hierarchy increases.
- To mitigate this, developers often use other state management solutions, like the `React context API`, `Redux` and other state management libraries.

## Lifting the state up:
- Lifting state up in React refers to the practice of `moving the state from a lower level child component to a higher level component in the component tree.` This is done to share and manage state across multiple components.
- When a child component needs access to certain data or needs to modify the data, instead of keeping that data and the corresponding state management solely within the child component, we move the state to a shared ancestor component.
- By doing so, the parent component becomes the source of truth for the state, and it can pass down the necessary data and functions as props to its child components.

By lifting the state up to a common ancestor, you centralize the state management, making it easier to control and share state among components. This pattern is especially useful in larger react applications where multiple components need access to the same data or where the state needs to be synchronized across different parts or the applications.

## Context API:
- To avoid props drilling in the application, `Context API`  provides a way to pass data through the component tree without having to pass props manually at every level.
- The two main components associated with the Context API are `Context Provider` and `Context Consumer`.

`Context Provider`: The context provider is a component that allows its children to subscribe to a context's change. It accepts a value prop, which is the data that will be shared with the components that are descendants of this provider.

The provider component is created using `React.createContext()` and then rendered as part of the component tree. It establishes the context and provides the data to its descendants.

```
// MyContext.js
export const MyContext = React.createContext();

// Parent component App.jsx
import { useState } from "react";
import { MyContext } from "./MyContext.js";

const App = () => {
  const [data, setData] = useState("Hello World");
  return(
    <MyContext.Provider value={data}>
      <Header />
      <Body />
    </MyContext>
  );
}
```
- In this example, data value 'Hello world' is available in both Header and Body component without passing it as props.

### Context Consumer:
This is an older way to read the context.

```
function Header() {
  // 🟡 Legacy way (not recommended)
  return (
    <ThemeContext.Consumer>
      {data => (
        <button className={data} />
      )}
    </ThemeContext.Consumer>
  );
}
```
- But the newly writted code should read context with `useContext()` hooks

```
import { useContext } from "react";
import { MyContext } from "./MyContext.js";

const Header = () => {
  const data = useContext(MyContext);
  return (
    <p>{data}</p>
  );
}
```

#### Default value in Context API:
If we don't pass value to the Provider in React context API, `it does use the default value specified when creating the context using React.createContext(<DEFAULT_VALUE>)`.
