# Hoisting
- Hoisting in JS is a core concept relies on the way how execution context is created.
- As we know, in first phase i.e. Memory allocation phase, all the variables and functions are allocated memory, even before any code is executed.
- All the variables are assigned `undefined` at this instance in local memory.
- Even Arrow functions enact as a variable and get undefined during the memory allocation phase.
- Hoisting is a mechanism in JS where all the variable declarations are moved to the top of the scope before execution, Therefore it is possible to call a function before intializing it.

# window & this keyword
- `window` object is created by the JS engines of the respective browsers when global execution context is created.
- Whenever an execution context is created, a `this` variable is also created.
- At the global level, `this` points to the global object(`window` object in case of browser).
- Anything that is not inside the function is the `global space`.
- Whenever we create any variable or function in global space, it get attached to global object(`window` object in case of browser)
- So to access variables/functions inside global space, there are several ways:
  1. `console.log(window.a)`
  2. `console.log(a)`
  3. `console.log(this.a) //at the global space level, where this points to the window object`
 
## undefined
`undefined` is a like a placeholder till a variable is not assigned value. `undefined != not defined`. It is special placeholder which reserves memory for each variable in the memory creation phase.

## Scope, Scope Chain & Lexical Environment
- Scope of a variable is directly dependent on the lexical environment.
- Whenever an execution context is created, a lexical environment is created.
- `Lexical environment` is the local memory along with the lexical environment of its parent. Lexical as a term means in hierarchy or in sequence.
- Having the reference of parent's lexical environment means, the child or the local function can access all the variables and functions defined in the memory space of its lexical parent.
- The JS engine first searches for a variable in the currect local memory space, if its not found here it searches for the variable in the lexical environment of its parent, and if its still not found, then it searches that variable in the subsequent lexical environment, and the sequence goes on until the variable is found in some lexical environment or the lexical environment becomes NULL.
- The mechanism of searching variables in the subsequent lexical environment is knows as `Scope chain`. If a variable is not found anywhere, then we say that the variable is not present in the scope chain.

## let & const in JS
- `let` and `const` are hoisted but its memory is allocated at other place than window which cannot be accessed before initialisation.
- JS use different memory for let and const, that is why it is not available if all use them before the declaration.
- Level of strictness of let and const are more compared to var.
- `const` has more strictness, because once it initialized we cannot change the value of it.
- Therefore, `var -> let -> const` in terms of level of strictness
- To summarize,
  1. **var**: Can use them before initialization which gives undefined, can re-declare and re-initialize, stored in global execution context.
  2. **let**: Can't use them before initialization otherwise gives `Reference error`, cannot re-declare but can re-initialize, stored in seperate memory.
  3. **const**: Can't use them before initialization otherwise gives `Reference error`, cannot re-declare also cannot re-initialize, stored in seperate memory.
- In standard, use const wherever possible followed by let, use var only if you have to.
 
## Temporal Dead zone
Line of code which is restricted to use the variable which is not yet declared(for let and const), that line of code area is known as `temporal dead zone`. Therefore, initializing variable at top is good idea, helps to shrink dead zone to 0.

**Example:**
```
1. console.log("Hello world");
2. // Other code line
3. ....
4. ....
// Line 1-4 is "Temporal dead zone"
5. let a = "Hello";
6. console.log(a);
```
### Errors in JS:
- **Reference Error**: Given where variable does not have memory allocation.
- **Type Error**: Given when we change type that is not supposed to be changed.
- **Syntax Error**: When proper syntax is not used.

## Block, Scope, Block scope & Shadowing
- `Block` is used to combine multiple statement into one statement so that we can use it at those places where JavaScript expects to have single statement.
- `Scope` of a variable or a function is the place where these are accessible.
- `Block scope`: the variable and function present within the scope of block section, and block follows the lexical scope chain pattern while accessing the variable.
- `Shadowing` is providing same name to the variable as of those variable which are present in the outer space.

Example:
```
var value1 = "Hello World";

function x() {
    var value1 = "Hello"; // Shadowing
    console.log(value1);
}

x();
console.log(value1);
```

# Closure
- A function which bind together within lexical environment.
- Whenever function is returned, even if is vanished in execution context but still it remembers the reference it was pointing to. Its not just that function alone it returns but the entire closure and that's where it becomes interesting. [Tutorial Link](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qikxEIxsXco&list=PLlasXeu85E9cQ32gLCvAvr9vNaUccPVNP&index=12)
```
function x() {
  var a = 7;
  function y() {
    console.log(a);
  }
  y();
}
x();
```
- Therefore, closure is the combination of function bundled together (enclosed) with reference to its surrounding state (lexical environment).
- **Uses of closures**:
  1. Module design pattern
  2. Currying
  3. Functions like once
  4. Memoize
  5. Maintaing state in async world
  6. setTimeouts
  7. Iterators
     
